The second part of the question is about the price of financial resources.
The top manager should know the price of financial resources for his company for the following reasons.
The first is that the price of the capital is the return on investment by investors in the company's activities.
The manager should anticipate possible changes in the price of shares depending on the expected return on investment and dividends.
In the first part of the question we discussed the situation of the price of the company's own capital.
The company can use both its own and borrowed capital as speculative capital.
It can buy shares at a low price and sell them at a high price after receiving positive dividends.
The second reason is the price of borrowed capital.
The price of borrowed capital is associated with the interest paid.
Therefore, it is necessary to choose the best option out of several options to attract investors.
If we look at the current situation of the financial market in Russia,
we can see that the interest rate in the currency is 5-6%.
However, banks say that you should borrow money from the bank.
Banks say that you should borrow money from the bank.
This is due to the fact that these currencies are very conservative and do not change the rate in the least.
The interest rate in the currency is 5-6%.
Therefore, the top manager should assume that the price of the borrowed resources is associated with the interest paid.
The manager responsible for the loan policy of the company should propose solutions related to the best possible outcome.
The price of financial resources is one of the key factors in the analysis of investment projects and planning of the company's financial budget.
The price of money varies over different periods of time.
In 2005-2006, the average price of $1 million was $28.70.
This is not comparable to the current $1 million.
The average price of $1 million was $28.70.
This is the decrease in the result of the work of the Central Bank of Russia in 2007.
The main point is that the benefits of borrowing from one currency and the disadvantages of borrowing from another currency should be associated with the interest rates and the currency exchange rate.
We consider foreign currencies as alternatives.
The factors related to the purchase of new equipment and the launch of new production, the promotion of the foreign market and the production of our own products should be taken into account.
If we consider the company's financial budget, we should take into account the interest rate and the sources of borrowing.
The following slide shows the information on how the Central Bank's refinancing rate of the Russian Federation changed from 2002 to 2007.
To summarize the state of the Central Bank's refinancing rate, we see that it fell from 25% to 10% on June 19, 2007.
The rate depends on the level of inflation in the country.
This is an achievement of the authorities and the regulatory body of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, which provides a corresponding rate for commercial borrowing resources provided by non-financial organizations on the Russian market.
Today, on average, the Central Bank's loan rate of Russian enterprises is somewhere around 2% of the Central Bank's base rate.
In terms of the value of the company's financial resources, we are focusing on the Central Bank's base rate, which indicates what will happen to the price of these resources in the next period.
In the case of a change in the Central Bank's refinancing rate, the borrower has the right to claim a reduction in the interest rate,
and the bank has the right to increase the loan rate provided to the client in the case of an increase in the Central Bank's rate.
The following slide shows the actual information of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation on the loan rates of non-financial organizations, i.e. Russian enterprises, in 2007.
We see that the base rate remains at 9.5%, 10.1%, 10.2%, which is approximately the same as the Central Bank's rate.
Commercial banks resell the resources they attract from the open financial markets, primarily private depositors, at a 4-5% rate to non-financial organizations.
The dynamics are such that the money we deposit in banks can only be saved, but not multiplied.
The interest rate we have today does not even reach the level of inflation that exists in the country today, but at least minimizes the losses, which can be made if we accumulate the money and do not place it at risk.
Of course, for the current activities of enterprises, the acceptable rates, and these interest rates can already be considered acceptable,
if we consider the situation in 1995, when the Central Bank's rate was 210%, all credit resources were usually equated to the dollar equivalent or allocated in currency.
The rates we see today in the financial market allow companies to plan their activities more effectively, with less risk to direct the resources attracted,
and increase the turnover of the enterprise, and are certainly an effective support for the development of the business of the company.
The next slide shows the average interest rates of commercial banks on loans to non-financial organizations and the population in the US dollar.
We see that the dollar rate for non-financial organizations is somewhat lower, on average, by 1%, than the dollar equivalent.
But again, if we compare the situation with the past, then 210% of annual interest in rubles and about 15-18% in currency were credited at that time in the dollar equivalent of commercial banks.
We see a positive trend. The ruble is strengthening its position, becoming a stable national currency, and today, according to experts, the dollar amount of the population is less than $90 billion.
This is a rather modest figure compared to what the population of our country had before.
It turns out that the dollar is gradually being washed out and is used only as a means of calculation, or as a calculation for everyday needs of the wealthy category of citizens.
In 2007, the population of commercial banks in the US dollar was credited with an average of 12.5%-13.3%.
This is the most common price of credit resources that can be used to attract companies to the economy or to meet the needs of the private sector in Russia.
It is the Central Bank's rate that determines the commercial rates for loans in rubles and US dollars for the national economy.
Another promising way to attract additional financial resources to the company's total capital, as well as to the company's debt, is to place corporate debt.
How effective is this option? First of all, the company is focused on diversifying options for attracting financial resources.
On the other hand, it is potentially ready to give a certain amount of transparency to the company's business operations, so that the debtors are sure that the debtor's risk is acceptable and that the debtor will be able to pay off his debt.
The slide shows the characteristics of how to place corporate debt.
In particular, it is supposed to be useful to attract consultants who can provide support in two main areas.
First of all, legal experts who register and issue documents to the Federal Financial Markets Service.
The second group of consultants are specialists from investment and banking units of large banks who are familiar with the standards of requests of investors in the stock market for issued bonds.
They can not only help the company prepare for the issuance of corporate bonds, but also determine the most profitable and acceptable time period for entering the stock market with the proposal of their own debt obligations for sale.
The next group of consultants is the underwriter, that is, the fund intermediary who helps the issuer of the bonds.
The underwriter is a participant in the trading on a particular exchange. According to the contract with the issuer, he issues securities on behalf of the issuer at the request of the client.
The underwriter offers the securities to the RTS or MMVB fund and sells them on behalf of the RTS or MMVB fund.
In Russian practice, there are rare cases when a pool or a group of underwriters consists of three or four investment banks that organize the placement together.
This increases the size of the commission. On the other hand, the pool of underwriters is a guarantee or a positive recommendation for the stock market, when a serious company with a good business reputation offers debt obligations to a particular issuer.
The choice of an underwriter is one of the most important stages in the preparation of the issuance of corporate bonds, because it is necessary not to make a mistake and take into account the experience of the current players of the underwriting market.
If we consider the results of the work in Russia in 2006, 11 billion dollars were allocated to corporate bonds and corporate shares that were placed on the Russian funding platforms.
The company Troika Dialog is the leader in this regard. The underwriting characteristics are listed in the slide.
The underwriting characteristics are listed in the slide.
The auction order is assumed to determine the price of the bonds, which allows companies that imitate corporate bonds to attract resources at a more optimal market price.
The slide shows a link to the Russian trading system exchange, where you can familiarize yourself with the list of trading participants and conduct a selection analysis of the industry or the size of the business of those companies that imitated corporate bonds.
The threshold level of profitability and net profit for a company should be at least 20 million dollars per year.
In this case, we say that the effect of the scale can be achieved.
The next slide shows the approximate price level, which is shown in the following slide.
The financial director must take into account that a bank transaction is closed and regulated only by contractual relations between the borrower and the bank.
At the same time, the company can get a lot of indirect benefits if it chooses to place corporate bonds.
This is due to the fact that most investors who consider the feasibility of placing their free financial resources in corporate bonds will familiarize themselves with the state of the company's business,
and will recommend to their clients to buy these bonds or to buy these bonds on their behalf.
The next slide shows the approximate price level, which is shown in the following slide.
To sum up, the debt capital is valuable, primarily for the maintenance of one's debt.
If we work with credit organizations, it is connected with the payment of interest to the banks that maintain our debt.
If we work with corporate securities, it is connected with the payment of interest to the banks that maintain our debt.
Depending on the volume of the assets, and the size of the business, one can choose a form of attracting the debt.
The threshold value is $20 million in net profit.
If we have a chance to declare a net profit of more than $20 million, we will be able to do so.
The third part of the questions is about the money market.
I want to draw your attention to the following slide.
There is an assertion that money is a commodity.
Depending on the macroeconomic conditions, the cost of money can be different.
At the same time, we can cite historical examples.
In post-war Germany, the inflation rate was up to 20,000% per year.
The money was issued in huge quantities, mainly in weight.
There were cases when people left their money carts outside to go to the store and to look at the prices.
When they left the store, the money was on the roadside, and someone privatized or expropriated the cart.
This is hyperinflationary economy.
It is clear that in a crisis, if the state is forced to issue additional debt,
the banknotes will increase the inflation rate, and the level of commercial loans will increase.
If the central bank's base rate increases, the base rate of commercial loans increases,
and the chain reaction to increase the price of goods and services begins.
At the same time, financial instruments are looking for a more stable base.
This is expressed in stable foreign currencies.
Therefore, the main factors that determine the cost of money are inflation and the state of the national economy.
The following slide shows three main reasons for the growth of the stock market as a source of financing in Russia.
First of all, we highlight the growth of international investment ratings in Russia, Russian issuers and their debt instruments.
The stability of the economy over the past six years allows Western large investors to be convinced,
and, first of all, conservative investors who invest in state-owned debt, that the stability of the economy will continue.
A stable level of oil prices allows forecasting the future profit of the Russian budget,
and this means that the Russian economy is becoming extremely investment attractive.
Today, American investors invest dollars in the Russian economy.
The dollar is devalued, but is currently converted into rubles.
In addition to the declared profitability of the stock market, on average, 20-30% per annum,
Western foreign investors receive additional income from the devaluation of the dollar.
The euro is in a different situation.
The euro is in a more conservative position, and even the exchange rate for the ruble is increasing.
On average, the euro is in the 34-35 range.
Therefore, the Russian stock market is a proposal of foreign financial resources for the development of the Russian economy.
This is why 2006 was the year of the highest foreign investments in Russia, and, according to estimates, is worth $40-50 billion per year.
At this rate, no economy in the world is growing, and if this trend persists for the next two or three years,
it can be said that the Russian economy has become the most investment attractive in the world.
This automatically means a reduction in the cost of foreign investment in Russia.
The second objective factor is the reduction of risks and the growth of the level of trust of domestic and international investors in debt.
Today, there are practically no corporate defaults on debt obligations,
and the market reacts very clearly to the reduction of prices on financial resources due to the market's quality characteristics.
In other words, when debt obligations are imitated by conscientious borrowers,
there is an opportunity to work at an acceptable level of profitability at the required high-quality level of borrowers.
2005 is considered the year of the initial stage of the Russian debt market's exit to a new level of quality,
precisely because foreign potential has entered the Russian trading platforms,
and Russian companies have gained access to foreign financial resources.
The next slide shows the main trends of the securities market.
It can be predicted that this trend will persist for the next three years.
First, there is a rapid increase in the number of emissions.
We are currently witnessing a very rapid and systematic centralization of various groups of companies.
We are seeing the increase in shareholder capital not only due to the current activities of individual companies,
but also due to the voluntary purchase of individual companies.
In addition, we are clearly seeing an increase in the average volume of one emission.
Today, the average volume of an emission is about 1 billion rubles.
This is when companies place bonds or carry out additional shares in this volume.
This indicates that the quality and volume of resources attracted to one conditional issuer is increasing.
In addition, we are seeing a decrease in the cost of entering the long-term investment market,
which is due to the fact that the largest underwriters are entering the game.
Through their subsidiary companies or direct participation in the institutional capital of other underwriters,
they are implementing a certain damping policy in the area of pricing for obtaining a certain client field.
In the future, the cost of entering the long-term investment market will decrease.
The following slide presents four basic financing schemes that Russian companies can use.
The most popular is the traditional banking lending scheme, the second is the VEX program,
the third is the bonds and the fourth is the IPO procedure.
Ideally, a Russian company that is focused on diversification of loans,
both bank loans and corporate bonds, VEX programs,
should, of course, follow all four methods of attracting financing.
Let's take a closer look at each of them.
The first is that we need to set certain criteria or signs of choosing a credit source.
There are four basic criteria.
First of all, the cost of financing,
everything that concerns the interest rate on the debt service,
and the costs of the zero cycle, when it is necessary to pay or bear the costs related to the preparation of transactions.
The second is the term of financing.
We see that the term of financing has been increasing very actively over the past five years
by Russian investors and the terms of financing are becoming more and more similar to the Western standards.
The third criterion is the necessary funding for attracting funds.
The bond and the third party's assignment are considered the most acceptable.
In addition, the Insurance Companies Institute works,
when the risks of non-return of the funds are insured.
In addition, various assignments are possible from informal but organized financial groups
based on regional associations and associations of entrepreneurs
that have corresponding funds for the development of their own members
through the provision of collective guarantees under the assignment of the obligations of the separate members of such associations.
The terms of financing are necessary for the organization of attracting financing as the fourth criterion.
It is also evident that, on the one hand, depending on the type of financing,
the terms begin to acquire clearly defined characteristics.
In the previous question, we considered that at least 125 days are necessary for the preparation of the issuance of corporate bonds.
If we consider the relationship with commercial banks,
many companies, within the framework of financial and economic services,
build measurable processes of interaction with banks to obtain loans.
Therefore, the terms become clear and predictable.
It is possible to make a plan for the budget and the movement of money,
when and at what time it is necessary to start negotiations
in order to get the opportunity to either re-lend or not allow cash outages.
The characteristics of a commercial bank loan as one of the most common financing options
can be distinguished by the following advantages.
First, there are no significant overhead expenses.
Since the enterprise has a balanced interaction with the service bank,
the bank usually knows the financial state of the borrower,
sees the money flows that the borrower has,
the intensity of income and spending of funds,
and knows the seasonality and characteristics of the borrower's payment ability.
In addition, the simplicity and speed of the transaction registration can be distinguished as an advantage.
There is no requirement for the state registration of such transactions.
That is, there is no public transaction between the credit organization and the borrower.
What are the disadvantages?
First, there are small loans.
This is due to the fact that the bank is limited in allocating the necessary financial resources,
for example, for the strategic development of the company,
the amount of assets at the company's disposal,
the turnover of financial resources that go through the account of a client in a particular bank,
and the amount of net profit that the borrower receives
and declares in the mandatory accounting for the last five dates,
which are first transferred to the credit committee,
and then to the control of the money circulation department in the commercial bank.
That is, compared to other options for attracting financial resources,
the bank loan has the biggest disadvantage, namely, small loans.
First of all, these restrictions are introduced for commercial banks by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation,
which regulates and strictly regulates the ways of assessing the creditability of the borrower in various internal departmental instructions,
as well as the attribution to various categories when determining the reserve for possible loss of assets.
The average loan term is one year,
but today banks issue longer loans.
In addition, the need to pay interest payments for the maintenance of the debt can be seen as a disadvantage.
In other cases, payments can be made at the end of the term,
or payments can be made in a quarterly manner, if we consider the mandatory loan.
High interest rates, compared to what exists today in the market in alternative ways of attracting financial resources,
and, of course, the need for a deposit or a third party order for the borrower,
or a third party deposit for the provision of bonds to the borrower in front of the banks.
These are the characteristics of a bank loan.
But today, a bank loan is the most common and safest scheme of interaction between banks and borrowers in the market.
The characteristics of exchange programs.
The undeniable advantage is the simplicity and efficiency of attracting funds through the exchange program.
At the same time, there is no registration of the issuance of VXLs,
which is the company's personal business,
regarding the time at which VXLs should be issued and the conditions.
The third advantage is the absence of a limitation on the volume of the issuance.
No one can regulate the volume of VXLs issued in the company, except for shareholders.
Shareholders can determine the limit.
Very often, VXLs are the preliminary stage for preparing bonds.
When a VXL is transferred to the operating players of exchange trades on various fund platforms,
they provide financial consultations and intermediary services, register the issuance and cancellation of VXLs,
monitor the transfer notes and can say exactly when and in which organization the VXL was transferred,
and simultaneously carry out verification procedures for VXL payment.
It should be noted that VXL is a more liquid instrument than a loan,
because the interaction between the VXL issuer, the company that imitated VXL,
and the market has a larger circle of companies than the deal of the loaner.
What are the disadvantages?
First of all, it is necessary to conduct an examination of the authenticity,
correctness and reliability of the transfer note chain in the VXL itself.
It is an extremely expensive, tedious and complex procedure.
At the same time, if this procedure is carried out by a financial intermediary,
and a financial intermediary is our future potential underwriter,
that is, he looks at the undeclared and unregistered volume of the issuance of these debt obligations of a particular company,
he can predict what will happen to the corporate debt.
In this case, this is a certain guarantee of the subsequent success of the corporate issuance of bonds.
The second very important drawback that must be taken into account is that VXL is the least protected instrument.
Since VXL is issued in a documented form,
the documentation of VXL is often accompanied by a fake VXL,
when VXL, by all appearances, can say that it was issued by a reliable company,
but at the same time it can be a beautiful fake.
When the term of VXL cancellation does not coincide with the specified date in the document,
when one of the mandatory signs as a condition for VXL cancellation is absent,
when the signatures of the first parties do not coincide, etc.
Such VXLs are called bronze VXLs.
And, of course, if we are going to issue VXLs for the outside world,
we need consultations and support from external experts,
and the recommendations on the issue of VXLs for the outside world
are based on the fact that we need a competent and reliable financial mediator.
Companies that carry out underwriting on Russian stock markets can provide us with such services.
The main advantage of issuing shares is the absence of the need to pay interest.
By issuing shares, we voluntarily include new members of the shareholders.
And it is clear that shares do not imply paying interest for the amount of money.
Shareholders, buying shares of the company at their own risk,
hope for the growth of the value of these shares,
and have the right to influence the decisions of the managers or the hiring team of employees of the company.
Another advantage is the absence of the need to pay interest.
Not only interest, but also the return of the money.
If we sell shares on the free market,
in order to return the money to the investor,
it is possible to sell the securities to other investors,
and there is no guarantee that they will be sold at a higher price.
But there are certain disadvantages.
The main disadvantage is the need for transparency in the company's activities.
The disadvantage is not that openness is bad.
The disadvantage is that openness and transparency are expensive for the company.
The company must make a lot of transformations,
certainly related to capital investments,
in order to meet the requirements of openness and transparency.
Perhaps the second disadvantage is the deflation of capital.
When we get some kind of uncontrollability when holding a meeting of shareholders,
when various points of decision-making appear,
which may not be comparable to the opinion of the company's management,
may not be comparable to the opinion of the company's main shareholders,
but by law, we must take into account the interests of the minority,
otherwise they can paralyze the company's work through various court proceedings.
In addition, the third disadvantage is the need for state registration of the issuance of shares,
which means additional costs for specialized services of consultants
for the preparation of documents for the Federal Service for Financial Markets
and the preparation of the necessary quarterly reports.
The next slide shows the main characteristics of issuing bonds.
In terms of benefits, we highlight the attraction of significant funds.
A bond loan is not bound by the company's ability to determine the maximum amount of loans
according to the assets at its disposal.
In this case, if the company declares its own liability for loans
plus the affiliated liability of shareholders and other businesses that are at the disposal of shareholders,
it is possible to attract large amounts of third-party financing,
which will be the basis for increasing the loan capital.
Bonds allow for a long-term loan,
and the amount of corporate bonds issued in Russia is on average 3 years.
State securities have a life expectancy of several decades.
If our companies had a flawless business reputation,
they would certainly use the opportunity to borrow for a long time.
The next slide shows the creation of a public credit history.
In this case, we say that companies are obliged to meet the requirements for repaying coupons
or preliminary payments on bonds.
At the same time, the information is sent to the credit bureau
on how the company copes or, suddenly, fails to meet its obligations for repaying the debt.
The absence of real insurance.
Bonds are issued without the need for any assets.
We do not transfer bonds to real estate.
They can be considered and used as collateral for loans in banks.
Another advantage is the ability to manage the size of the debt.
When the company is independent or, on the order of financial intermediaries,
can buy out its own bonds in the market,
thereby minimizing the amount of debt to be paid on a fixed date.
What are the disadvantages?
As with shares, the company's transparency is necessary.
This means additional preparatory capital costs and the state registration of the issuance of shares,
which is associated with the preparation of documents and the quarterly report.
And, of course, with the time required to register the volume of the issuance of securities,
corporate bonds.
The next slide shows the opportunities for financing for the enterprise of borrowers
when entering the securities market.
When we say that the company receives, first of all, long-term capital,
money is always cheaper if it is long-term.
The second moment is that the company gains publicity.
The company becomes disciplined.
It is responsible not only for the results of the activities in front of the current shareholders,
but also for the extended circle of shareholders or holders of corporate bonds.
The company has the opportunity to improve its image,
increase trust, and, accordingly, trust of investors will allow to perform tasks
to attract the necessary amount of borrowed capital
with less costs and less costs in the next period of time.
This is necessary for financing the company's strategy of development.
The fourth opportunity is that the company has an exit to a more developed capital market.
This allows the company to capitalize its value, it becomes open, public,
and, accordingly, it facilitates its exit to a more developed capital market.
First of all, it is on the London fund platform, on the New York fund platform,
borrowing on the fund platform in Paris.
Let's go back to the company.
The slide shows the main requirements that the company must meet.
First of all, the company that enters the public market must produce competitive and promising products.
It must have a highly qualified team of management.
It must have its own business model of management.
I mean all the procedures related to the organizational structure,
the procedures related to the description of the main business processes,
the procedures related to planning, budgeting, analysis of the results,
decision-making on deviations, on adjusting the company's development course,
on changing the normative indicators for individual business processes
in terms of their cost and time.
The company must exist in the market for a long time within the framework of planned strategic development.
The next requirement for the company is that the company's activities must be profitable.
This means that all the procedures related to increasing the cost of tax minimization
or reducing the part of the revenue from the implementation to reflect the smaller amount of revenue,
and as a result of tax reduction, the base on profits, go to the past.
The company is forced to declare all profits, and, accordingly, pay taxes on profits,
but also demonstrate to investors that the company's performance is positive.
The company must have a strong financial control system.
This is primarily due to the company's qualifications and performance of the middle management level,
and means the use of the management accounting methodology, financial controlling,
which will allow the company to control the existing cash flow.
The accounting system must be approved when the company's standards for management accounting
and public accounting must be developed.
The last requirement is that the company must provide the financial information to the interested users,
which is the shareholders, creditors, and possibly their employees,
if they are a part of the obligatory category of persons to whom the company's financial information is provided.
Not all the company's assets can be reflected in the asset complex.
In the next slide, we will see why the Russian accounting system does not allow
to provide fully reliable information about the company's financial state.
In this case, apart from the traditional standards of accounting,
there should be a part of the management information provided to the interested parties,
and the company should be involved in leasing transactions.
After a certain period of time, the size of non-returnable assets will be increased
by the amount of the main funds used in the leasing process.
Very often, the assessment of the assets of our companies does not reflect their fair value.
Russian companies are often undervalued.
This is due to the lack of business reputation of Russian companies,
and the trade marks that are available to the old companies.
The assessment of the main funds is low, and does not reflect the real use of the assets.
This is due to the fact that the balance of the main funds may be much lower than their market value.
One example is the land or know-how patents,
which is the amount of non-returnable assets that the company has at its disposal.
The assessment of the reserves is usually high,
since it does not take into account the pure component of the implementation.
This means that the super-normative limits or super-normative reserves
are already considered non-active or dead-end capital,
but they also continue to be assessed in terms of the balance of the value.
Although, if such reserves have appeared, they must be evaluated and resold
for at least partial replenishment of the cash flow.
This does not often happen.
The assessment of the debitor's debt is high, and does not take into account the unreliable debts.
The expenses and the debt can be reflected not in a timely manner,
but later, which leads to the increase of the debt.
We do not reflect the obligations that we have,
due to the fact that either the documents were not received,
or in order to maintain the standards set by the shareholders
in relation to the debt and the debt.
At the same time, it is a matter of belief,
based on the report that our company prepares,
that everything is in order with our own forces or capital,
which is formed by a part of the property complex,
and its share increases accordingly.
Obligations can be misclassified on the term of repayment.
On the one hand, we assume that we have an extension of the documents,
but on the other hand, the requirements of the creditors,
in accordance with violations of certain agreements,
either verbal or written, require a term of repayment earlier.
At the same time, we take into account our obligations
based on the documents.
A few words about the potential for financing enterprises.
The scheme includes division into groups of positive and negative.
We claim that the company has a positive financial potential,
and we expect to increase the investment attractiveness
compared to large public companies.
They are old players in the market,
with a conservative policy of attraction.
New players always use high levels of attention from investors.
If we go to the open financial market,
we lack negative information.
Even if we had some contradictions with the service banks,
this information was not included in the specialized database.
The sources of information in the credit bureau
began to work actively in 2006.
Therefore, we are only an object of positive information.
We may have a high potential for growth,
which is also interesting for our investors.
We have a high level of profitability,
proven efficiency of the existing management system,
low systemic level of activity,
and visibility of our business,
when we clearly predict where our place in the market is,
what is the share of our market,
and we can openly declare these indicators.
We can consider the procedures of working in new markets,
which means additional business activity,
and as a result of financial components,
this is a growth in revenue from implementation.
We have the potential not to use segments of attraction and financing,
primarily to reduce the cost of the attracted resources.
At the same time, there are negative components,
which can negatively affect the potential for financing.
First, there is a lack of large-scale financing sources.
In any case, we will be felt for about two or three years in the market.
How will we feel under the influence of time?
How will our financial indicators deteriorate or improve?
There are hidden and opaque forms of financing.
We will have to completely abandon these forms.
In case this information suddenly appears in the market,
we will immediately be on the list of unfavorable potential clients.
The market can react negatively to us.
There is a lack of disclosure of our credit history,
how we worked with the bank.
There is no negative information, but there is no positive information.
There is a lack of appreciation of assets and business.
It would be possible to cost more,
but at the same time it is impossible to prove this market
due to the limitation of the presence of time.
There is a low cost of clean assets
due to the underestimation of the company's assets, primarily of the non-returnable block.
There is a lack of timely management systems and accounting.
We did not have time and investment opportunities
to automate the business.
There is a possible wear and tear of production capacities.
There may be a low level of compliance with corporate interests,
primarily of minority shareholders.
There is a lack of practice in disclosing information.
These are negative factors that can have a negative impact
on the financing opportunities of our company.
The next slide shows the financing scheme
within the framework of the current planned investment program.
The algorithm is that if there is an investment program,
we need the financing parameters.
The three main parameters are the time, amount and cost.
If we do not have an investment program,
we can state that the absence of an investment program
means the absence of a formalized strategy.
In this case, the financing objectives
that are at the disposal of the company
may have either a project characteristic
or be qualified through the financing parameters.
In any case, we receive requirements
on the amount of funds from the financing parameters.
We may have a positive cash flow or a negative cash flow.
The positive cash flow is the amount of funds
that can cover all the current expenses.
The negative cash flow is the amount of funds
that can be compensated for by additional financial loans
or by receiving funds from the sale of some assets.
The negative cash flow is the amount of funds
that can be compensated for by additional financial loans
or by receiving funds from the sale of some assets.
The negative cash flow is the amount of funds
that can be compensated for by additional financial loans.
At the same time, the financing parameters
assume that we are focusing on a long-term repayment.
To achieve this, we need to form a market
that provides information from the underwriter
or the bondsman that the emitter or the company
that issued the debt is willing to repay the debt
in advance or from the emitter.
This information is then provided to the underwriter
and the underwriter can decide
whether to repay the debt in advance
or from the emitter.
We use the auction scheme,
we use the bond of our debt to a particular market tool
or we determine the interest rate
depending on the market conduct.
The market conduct is based on the alternative types
of loans or those that exist on the fund site.
The next slide shows the main stages
of the bond issuance for corporate borrowers.
The first stage is the decision-making
on the issuance of bonds.
To do this, we need to determine the parameters
and we need to understand
which direction we are going to use
the financial resources.
Or we need to determine the implementation
of the investment part of the company's strategy.
Then we need to clearly predict the volumes,
the deadlines and the technology of the work
and the availability of new equipment
or the construction of new land plots
or the installation of new trading areas.
The parameters of the bond are the consequence
of the strategy of using the borrowed capital
in the company's activities.
The approval of the prospect of issuing securities
must be detailed,
the deadlines,
the repayment of debt obligations,
the nominal value of the bond,
the estimated interest rates.
At the stage of decision-making
we need to start disclosing the information
and the signing of the corresponding contracts
with the organizer, the underwriter,
the so-called market maker and the payment agent
of the bond.
The market maker is the one who creates
a favorable image of the event related to the issuance
of securities on the debt market.
The market maker should be able to
make the necessary decisions
and to issue the securities.
The bond must be issued by the State.
The third stage is the preparation
of the bond to be issued.
At this stage, we should disclose the information
and the signing of the corresponding contracts
with the organizer, the underwriter,
the payment agent of the bond.
The bond must be issued by the State.
The fourth stage is the procedure
of issuing the bond to the trading system.
The fifth stage is the preparation of the report.
The report must be approved and registered
by the Federal Service for Financial Markets.
The sixth stage is the disclosure
of the information in the form
of quarterly reports
on the results of the stock market activities.
The seventh stage is the cancellation
of the financial activities.
The procedure of the stock market
is a serious organizational transformation
within the company.
The company is forced to abandon
some attractive, but not promising
methods of financial activities
and to abandon the conceivable
or hidden profitability.
This is accompanied by the need
to disclose the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the quarterly reports
for third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
The company is forced to disclose
the facts of the economic activities
and to ensure transparency
of the results of the third-party investors.
We are losing the feeling of the expensiveness
of our business.
We are losing the feeling of self-sufficiency
and the occupation of a certain place
in the competitive environment of the open market.
We are losing the feeling of the expensiveness
and the self-sufficiency
of the open market.
The open market is a source of finance
and is the main way and demand
for the development and support
of any business of any business organization.
At the same time,
it is considered to be a loss of business benefit
when a company has the potential
to be profitable.
At the same time,
the key factor that affects the efficiency
of the operation and use of capital
in the company is the qualified staff,
professionalism and experience
of the leading employees.
The main factors that affect the efficiency
of the operation and use of capital
are the capital of the company
and the capital of the employees.
At the same time,
the growth and development of the market
increases the demand for our clients
and the prices for our products
are increasing.
Companies are obliged
and must use the financial resources
for the extensive growth.
The capital of the company
gives the effect of the financial lever
on the efficiency of the operation
is small and inalienable less
than the net profit
in the absolute sense.
If a company can use
the favorable market opportunities,
the property complex
of the company is increasing
due to the growth of its own capital
and the growth of its own capital
is made due to the net profit
of the company,
due to the increasing share capital
and we use short-term and long-term loans
and loans of banks, financial organizations
and investment companies
that are ready to buy our corporate bonds,
when they are ready to use
the capital of our company
in their economic turnover,
the company is a first-class borrower
and many banks are trying to work with us.
It should be noted that in addition to net profit
as a result of the company's activities,
it is necessary to work and give maximum management control
to such an aspect as the growth of the business value.
The value of the company's business
is determined by the support of the company's publicity,
openness and transparency.
On the one hand, it is a mandatory requirement
of the market fund when placing bonds
or when issuing additional shares of our company.
But the preparation for the opportunity
to work in such conditions requires
a long-term strategy of presence in the market.
In this case, investors react to the facts
and results of the company's economic activities
with great confidence and pleasure
and acquire the debt obligations of our company.
In relation to the market fund,
the company is a first-class borrower
and it is necessary to compare the possible ways
of financing that the company has at its disposal.
We noted that companies can use
traditional banking lending,
they can use the issuance or issuance of their own VXLs,
they can use the issuance and issuance of their own shares
as an alternative,
and they can use the issuance and issuance of their own bonds.
When making a decision
on the means or sources of financing
that we will use to implement our own strategy,
the company must take into account
all the pros and cons,
all the characteristics of the four ways
of implementing the company's strategy.
Depending on the working conditions,
the size of the business,
the direction of the use of the financial resources
that attract the company's capital,
we must build an element of the financial strategy
as a management of capital.
The financial director of the company
and his financial and economic services
cannot regulate or influence the business activity
as a way of making a profit.
At the same time, the management of the company's expenses
is a function of the financial and economic services.
If the company is undertaking
a management of the company's expenses
and the management of the company's finances
is a function of the financial and economic services,
the company must be able to manage
the company's finances
and the company must be able to manage
Many dramatics of the calculations
were consulted by the financial directors
while the financial producers Oleg Vamoshibodin
organized analysis.
The financial director cannot adjust the sales profitability
based on the price of the product or service.
In this case, a collegial approach is necessary
when the financial director can report to the shareholders
the sales profitability and the assets profitability
based on the quantity or the normative indicator.
This is related to the fact that the financial director
can report to the shareholders
the sales profitability and the normative indicator.